Schemas
The questions in this challenge are based on the Mining database schema shown in the diagram below. You can click the diagram to see a larger version of the diagram. n the above diagram, primary key attributes are shown in bold and underlined; foreign key attributes are dashed-underlined and with an arrow pointing to the referenced table. 
Company(id INTEGER, name VARCHAR(60), url VARCHAR(200),
      country CHAR(3)  -- country code
      government_agency  CHAR(1) -- 'Y' or 'N'
);

Infrastructure(entryNo INTEGER, name VARCHAR(50), state VARCHAR(3), status VARCHAR(20));

Port(entryNo INTEGER, maxShips INTEGER, description VARCHAR(200));

ProcessingPlant(entryNo INTEGER, kind VARCHAR(50), description VARCHAR(200));

Mine(entryno INTEGER,
   significant CHAR(1) -- 'Y' or 'N'
);

Commodity(comId VARCHAR(5), name VARCHAR(50));

Operates(owner INTEGER, place INTEGER);

Produces(mine INTEGER, commodity VARCHAR(5), capacity INTEGER);

Processes(plant INTEGER, commodity VARCHAR(5), capacity INTEGER);


Write a SQL query that determines how many ports in Western Australia
("WA') are listed in the MiningDB database.


Challenge 2
Write a SQL query to find the number of processing plants in South
Australia(SA) that have an unknown capacity in the MiningDB databa
Note: make sure that you count each processing plant only once.


Challenge 3
Write a SQL query to list the name of all 'Oil Refinery' plants in Victoria
("VIC) in alphabetical order.


Challenge 4
Write an SQL query that lists each commodity (only by short-name, ie. the
commodity ID) that is processed in a processing plant, and for each
commodity the corresponding count of plants where such commodities
are processed. Your query result should have two columns:
·commodity-each commodity processed in some plant;
· count - a count of how many plant processing this commodity.
The result shall be listed in descending order of the counts (the most
commonly processed commodity shall be listed first); all commodities with
the same count shall be further ordered alphabetically. Only list
commodities that are processed in at least one plant.


Challenge 5
Write an SQL query that lists the names of all ports with less than 8 ship
berths (as defined with the maxShips attribute) in South Australia (SA) in
alphabetical order.



Challenge 6
Write an SQL query that lists the states (by shortname) and per each state
the average and the maximum size (maxShips) of the ports in that state
with status 'Operating'. States without any operating ports should not be
included. Your query result should have the following three columns:
·state-state with at least one operating port;
·avg_size-the average port size per state state;
·max_size-the largest port size(according to maxShips)per state.
The result shall be listed in alphabetical order of the states.



Challenge 7
Write an SQL query that lists the states (in alphabetical order) and per
each state the total capacity of its Diamond mines (both undifferentiated
diamonds ('Dmd') and gems ('Dmdg')). Only include states with at least 3
distinct diamond mines.


Challenge 8
Write a SQL query to find the total capacity of all the "Operating"
processing plants owned by each company. If the processing plants
owned by a company has no capacity, remove those from the output.


Challenge 9
Write a SQL query to find the names of the processing plants that process
both Cobalt("Co) and Sugar bean('Sb').


Challenge 10
Write a SQL query to find the country whose ports have the highest
average shipment capacity. Note that shipment capacity of a port is
defined as 'maxShips' in the Port entity set.